---
layout: page
title: Technical details
permalink: /technical-details
---

I will begin a plen air painting of the background 1hour before the wedding begins. The exact special moment captured will be painted from a reference photograph. 

The material is standard primed canvas stretched over an internal wooden frame. 
The medium used is high-quality Liquitex Heavy Body acrylic paint. Acrylic allows for the quickest drying time and accident-free transport so, the painting is yours as soon as its done! 

Acrylic vs oil?
The industry does indeed consider oil a more traditional and marginally expensive medium to acrylic paint. However, its main appeal is its slow drying time (often weeks or months to fully dry!) suitable for artists who want to work on a single piece over an extended few months or years. Essentially, it dries slowly, making it easier on the artist to work with. In terms of it’s effect on the final product, oil can only capture more depth and colour gradation if the artist slowly adds layers over months or years. But for a painting made in a day, oil cannot achieve any additional complexity than acrylic can. Acrylic is oil’s modern counterpart is no less – it is more vivid and able to create the same depth in painting that oil can. Contemporary masters like Pollock, Warhol and Basquiat overwhelmingly used acrylic! Acrylic paint remains flexible after drying, does not crack or crumble over time. Acrylic is particularly hardy in warmer temperatures. It forms a waterproof, lightfast surface that is resistant to temperature fluctuations. Oils only have an advantage in sub-zero climates. That’s why the now long-gone old European masters loved oils – they were painting in freezing attics back in Europe! Oil paints contain linseed oil. When applied to the canvas they react with oxygen ensuing a chemical reaction where oil molecules cross-link. This reaction never completely stops, even under ideal display and storage conditions. After years of continuous cross-linking, the paint dries past the point of a desirable ‘cured’ state to become excessively brittle. As a result, oil paints are increasingly vulnerable to cracking over time. Jones quoting Mayer has observed that many, if not most, 100+ year-old oil paintings in several leading museums have cracked.
